Analyzing the performance of metrics over
various time periods is important for understanding trends and seasonality.
The time graph in the Google Analytics Reporting Interface,
allows you to graph one or two metrics and see them visualized over time.
Let's see this in the audience overview.
By default, the top graph shows the number of users by day for the selected date range.
The blue line shows the fluctuation in the user metric.
If you place your cursor over any point on the line graph,
you'll see detailed information for that date.
The data options on the right give you timing options.
You can select hourly,
by day, by week, or by month.
Users is not the only metric you can see in the Line graph,
you can use the drop-down to chart any of the available metrics in this data-set.
Let's choose sessions.
Now we see sessions by day.
You can also chart more than one metric at a time,
by clicking on the, Select a Metric Link.
This brings up the remaining metrics for the audience dataset.
Let's add bounce rate.
Now, the chart is showing sessions and bounce rate over time.
You'll note that each metric is presented in a different shade,
and the scales for each metric are on opposite sides of the chart.
The scale for the first variable sessions, is on the left.
The scale for bounce rate is on the right.
Just like before, you can place your cursor over any specific date,
to bring up the data for both metrics, for the date shown.
You can also compare metrics across two different time periods.
Use the data selector to select the date ranges.
Here you see we selected January 1,
2018 through March 31,
2018, as our first date range.
We're comparing it to the previous year aligned by the day of the week.
Now, you see data displayed for each date range in the graph.
As before, you can place your cursor over
a selected date range and see data for a particular day,
and compare it to the same day last year,
aligned by the day of the week.
The time graph can help you understand
seasonality and identify changes in metrics quickly.